.github/skills/git-commit/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: git-commit
description: Generates well-structured git commit messages following conventional commit standards (feat, fix, docs, refactor). Creates clear, atomic commits with proper formatting and context. Use when committing changes, writing commit messages, or when user mentions commit, git commit, conventional commits, or changelog.
metadata:
  author: Dau Quang Thanh
  version: "1.0.0"
  last-updated: "2026-01-27"
license: MIT
---

# Git Commit

## Overview

This skill generates well-structured git commit messages following conventional commit standards and best practices. It helps create clear, atomic commits with proper formatting and context.

## When to Use

- Committing code changes to version control
- Writing conventional commit messages
- Creating changelog-ready commits
- Following team commit standards
- User mentions: "commit", "git commit", "conventional commits", "changelog"

## Prerequisites

- Git installed and initialized repository
- Changes staged for commit
- Understanding of changes being committed

## Key Principles

1. **Be specific**: Describe exactly what changed
2. **Be consistent**: Follow conventional commit format
3. **Be atomic**: One logical change per commit
4. **Be clear**: Write for others (including future you)
5. **Be complete**: Include why and context when needed
6. **Be conventional**: Follow standard format for automation
7. **Be considerate**: Do not push code until users ask for it

## Standard Format

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>

<body>

<footer>
```

**Components:**

- **type**: Category of change (required) - feat, fix, docs, refactor, perf, test, build, ci, chore, style, revert
- **scope**: Area affected (optional) - auth, api, ui, db, etc.
- **subject**: Brief description (required, ≤50 chars)
- **body**: Detailed explanation (optional, wrap at 72 chars)
- **footer**: Breaking changes, issue refs (optional)

## Basic Workflow

1. **Choose the commit type**:
   - `feat`: New user-facing functionality
   - `fix`: Bug fix for users
   - `docs`: Documentation only
   - `refactor`: Code restructuring without behavior change
   - `perf`: Performance improvement
   - `test`: Adding/updating tests
   - `build`: Dependency/build system changes
   - `ci`: CI/CD configuration changes
   - `chore`: Maintenance tasks
   - `style`: Code formatting
   - `revert`: Reverting previous commit

2. **Write subject line** (imperative mood, ≤50 chars):

   ```
   ✅ feat(auth): add OAuth2 authentication
   ✅ fix(api): resolve race condition in user updates
   ❌ feat: added some stuff
   ❌ fix: bug fix
   ```

3. **Add body if needed** (explain why, not just what):
   - Required for breaking changes
   - Recommended for complex changes
   - Wrap lines at 72 characters

4. **Include footer**:
   - Breaking changes: `BREAKING CHANGE: description`
   - Issue references: `Closes #123`, `Fixes #456`

## Quick Examples

**Simple feature:**

```
feat(auth): add password reset endpoint
```

**Bug fix with context:**

```
fix(api): prevent null pointer in user preferences

User preferences API crashed when optional fields were null.
Added null checks and default values.

Closes #456
```

**Breaking change:**

```
feat(api)!: change response format to JSON:API spec

BREAKING CHANGE: API responses now follow JSON:API format.
Update client code to parse data from `data` key instead
of root level.

Closes #789
```

## Reference Documentation

For detailed guidance, load these reference files as needed:

- **[commit-types.md](references/commit-types.md)**: Complete list of commit types with examples
- **[quick-reference.md](references/quick-reference.md)**: Decision trees and checklists
- **[best-practices.md](references/best-practices.md)**: Atomic commits, meaningful messages, issue references
- **[writing-guidelines.md](references/writing-guidelines.md)**: Subject line rules, scope selection, body formatting
- **[common-scenarios.md](references/common-scenarios.md)**: Examples for typical development situations
- **[common-mistakes-to-avoid.md](references/common-mistakes-to-avoid.md)**: Anti-patterns and how to fix them
- **[team-conventions.md](references/team-conventions.md)**: Customizing conventions for teams
- **[commit-message-structure.md](references/commit-message-structure.md)**: Detailed format specifications
- **[commit-message-templates.md](references/commit-message-templates.md)**: Ready-to-use templates
- **[commit-workflow.md](references/commit-workflow.md)**: Integration with git workflows
- **[examples-by-project-type.md](references/examples-by-project-type.md)**: Examples for web apps, libraries, mobile, microservices
- **[advanced-patterns.md](references/advanced-patterns.md)**: Complex scenarios and edge cases
- **[commit-message-convention.md](references/commit-message-convention.md)**: Enforcement tools and configurations

Commit message:

docs: refine considerate principle wording
Update the wording of the considerate principle to be more precise: 'Do not push changes to the remote repository unless requested' instead of 'Do not push code until users ask for it'.

.github/skills/git-commit/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: git-commit
description: Generates well-structured git commit messages following conventional commit standards (feat, fix, docs, refactor). Creates clear, atomic commits with proper formatting and context. Use when committing changes, writing commit messages, or when user mentions commit, git commit, conventional commits, or changelog.
metadata:
  author: Dau Quang Thanh
  version: "1.0.0"
  last-updated: "2026-01-27"
license: MIT
---

# Git Commit

## Overview

This skill generates well-structured git commit messages following conventional commit standards and best practices. It helps create clear, atomic commits with proper formatting and context.

## When to Use

- Committing code changes to version control
- Writing conventional commit messages
- Creating changelog-ready commits
- Following team commit standards
- User mentions: "commit", "git commit", "conventional commits", "changelog"

## Prerequisites

- Git installed and initialized repository
- Changes staged for commit
- Understanding of changes being committed

## Key Principles

1. **Be specific**: Describe exactly what changed
2. **Be consistent**: Follow conventional commit format
3. **Be atomic**: One logical change per commit
4. **Be clear**: Write for others (including future you)
5. **Be complete**: Include why and context when needed
6. **Be conventional**: Follow standard format for automation
7. **Be considerate**: Do not push changes to the remote repository unless requested

## Standard Format

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>

<body>

<footer>
```

**Components:**

- **type**: Category of change (required) - feat, fix, docs, refactor, perf, test, build, ci, chore, style, revert
- **scope**: Area affected (optional) - auth, api, ui, db, etc.
- **subject**: Brief description (required, ≤50 chars)
- **body**: Detailed explanation (optional, wrap at 72 chars)
- **footer**: Breaking changes, issue refs (optional)

## Basic Workflow

1. **Choose the commit type**:
   - `feat`: New user-facing functionality
   - `fix`: Bug fix for users
   - `docs`: Documentation only
   - `refactor`: Code restructuring without behavior change
   - `perf`: Performance improvement
   - `test`: Adding/updating tests
   - `build`: Dependency/build system changes
   - `ci`: CI/CD configuration changes
   - `chore`: Maintenance tasks
   - `style`: Code formatting
   - `revert`: Reverting previous commit

2. **Write subject line** (imperative mood, ≤50 chars):

   ```
   ✅ feat(auth): add OAuth2 authentication
   ✅ fix(api): resolve race condition in user updates
   ❌ feat: added some stuff
   ❌ fix: bug fix
   ```

3. **Add body if needed** (explain why, not just what):
   - Required for breaking changes
   - Recommended for complex changes
   - Wrap lines at 72 characters

4. **Include footer**:
   - Breaking changes: `BREAKING CHANGE: description`
   - Issue references: `Closes #123`, `Fixes #456`

## Quick Examples

**Simple feature:**

```
feat(auth): add password reset endpoint
```

**Bug fix with context:**

```
fix(api): prevent null pointer in user preferences

User preferences API crashed when optional fields were null.
Added null checks and default values.

Closes #456
```

**Breaking change:**

```
feat(api)!: change response format to JSON:API spec

BREAKING CHANGE: API responses now follow JSON:API format.
Update client code to parse data from `data` key instead
of root level.

Closes #789
```

## Reference Documentation

For detailed guidance, load these reference files as needed:

- **[commit-types.md](references/commit-types.md)**: Complete list of commit types with examples
- **[quick-reference.md](references/quick-reference.md)**: Decision trees and checklists
- **[best-practices.md](references/best-practices.md)**: Atomic commits, meaningful messages, issue references
- **[writing-guidelines.md](references/writing-guidelines.md)**: Subject line rules, scope selection, body formatting
- **[common-scenarios.md](references/common-scenarios.md)**: Examples for typical development situations
- **[common-mistakes-to-avoid.md](references/common-mistakes-to-avoid.md)**: Anti-patterns and how to fix them
- **[team-conventions.md](references/team-conventions.md)**: Customizing conventions for teams
- **[commit-message-structure.md](references/commit-message-structure.md)**: Detailed format specifications
- **[commit-message-templates.md](references/commit-message-templates.md)**: Ready-to-use templates
- **[commit-workflow.md](references/commit-workflow.md)**: Integration with git workflows
- **[examples-by-project-type.md](references/examples-by-project-type.md)**: Examples for web apps, libraries, mobile, microservices
- **[advanced-patterns.md](references/advanced-patterns.md)**: Complex scenarios and edge cases
- **[commit-message-convention.md](references/commit-message-convention.md)**: Enforcement tools and configurations
